# Parse Output Files from `MStrat`

Prepare raw output files generated by `MStrat` (Schoen and Brown 1993;
Gouesnard et al. 2001; Gouesnard et al. 2002) .

## Usage

``` r
parse_mstrat_out(
  data.file,
  genotype = NULL,
  variable.file,
  kernel.file,
  redundance.output = NULL,
  core.output = NULL
)
```

## Arguments

- data.file:

  The path to the `.dat` input file used for generating the output files
  from `MStrat`.

- genotype:

  Name of column/variable with the genotype names as a character string.

- variable.file:

  The path to the `.var` input file used for generating the output files
  from `MStrat`.

- kernel.file:

  The path to the `.ker` input file used for generating the output files
  from `MStrat`.

- redundance.output:

  The path to the redundance output file generated by `MStrat`.

- core.output:

  The path to the core output file generated by `MStrat`.

## Value

A list with the following components:

- `MStrat Core Output`:

  The raw output of core sets constructed by `MStrat`.

- `MStrat Core Optimised`:

  The optimised core set output from `MStrat`.

- `MStrat Redundance Output`:

  The raw output of Redundance estimation by `MStrat`

- `MStrat Redundance Plot`:

  A list of plots of Redundance estimation.

## References

Gouesnard B, Bataillon TM, Decoux G, Rozale C, Schoen DJ, David JL
(2001). “MSTRAT: An algorithm for building germ plasm core collections
by maximizing allelic or phenotypic richness.” *Journal of Heredity*,
**92**(1), 93–94.  
  
Gouesnard B, Bataillon TM, Decoux G, Rozale C, Schoen DJ, David JL
(2002). “MStrat Documentation 1.1.” Evolutionary genomics and population
management (GE\\^{\textrm{2}}\\pop), Institut Amelioration Genetique et
Adaptation des Plantes mediterraneennes et tropicales (agAp Institute),
CIRAD, Montpellier, France.  
  
Schoen DJ, Brown AH (1993). “Conservation of allelic richness in wild
crop relatives is aided by assessment of genetic markers.” *Proceedings
of the National Academy of Sciences*, **90**(22), 10623–10627.

## See also

[`prep_mstrat_input`](https://aravind-j.github.io/avial/reference/prep_mstrat_input.md)

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # interactive()

parse_mstrat_out(data.file = "MStrat_input_data.dat",
                 genotype = "Accession",
                 variable.file = "MStrat_input_variable.var",
                 kernel.file = "MStrat_input_kernel.ker",
                 redundance.output = "MStrat - Redundance.out",
                 core.output = "MStrat - Core.out")
}
```
